---
lang: en
templateKey: documentation-page
slug: documentation
pageTitle: Project | Documentation
---

# LPaaS 2.0 Documentation

## Requirements
1. Operating System: macOS Sierra (10.12) or later, Windows 10, or Linux.
1. Node.js 10.13.0 (LTS) or higher.
1. A code editor, such as Visual Studio Code. 
1. Git version control system.
1. npm package manager.
1. Gatsby command line interface (CLI). 
1. A GitHub account.
1. A Microsoft Azure account (to deploy with Azure). 

## Getting Started

1. Click the `Use this template` button.
1. Select a name for your new repository.
1. Click `Create repository from template`.
1. Click the `Code` button to clone the repository and follow instructions to clone to your local machine.
1. Navigate to the directory on your local machine.
1. Install dependencies with `npm install`.
1. Add `env.development` and `.env.production` file to the root directory of your project. Both should follow the exact structure of the `/.env.template` file. Fill in your secrets.
1. Run the Gatsby development server `gatsby develop` or `npm run dev`.

## Project Structure

### Files & Folders You Can Edit
1. `.github`.
1. `src/constants`.
1. `src/images`. Edit contents in this folder to update the agency logo, background image used in the hero, or the images in the graphics section. See [Changing Images](#changing-images). 
1. `src/locales`. This folder contains folders for each language used and corresponding `translation.json` files. These translation files include the text for elements that are included in every page of the webapp, such as the header, footer, navigation bar, and language selector module. 
1. `src/markdown-pages`. This folder contains folders that correspond to each template page. Within each of those folders (ex. `documentation` or 1. `landing`) there are markdown files that include the content of the specific template page, and each markdown file represents a different language. 1. These are the files you will change to customize the text of each page to fit your specific project and to provide translations of content.
1. `src/styles/_custom-theme.scss`. You can edit this file to customize the theme of the webapp, including changing the color scheme and font. See [Customizing the Theme](#customizing-the-theme). 
1. `README.md`. You can update this file to provide additional information about about your project.

### Files & Folders You Do Not Need to Edit
1. `/public`. This folder is automatically generated by Gatsby.
1. `src/components`. 
1. `src/pages`.
1. `src/templates`. Do not edit existing templates. 
1. `src/styles/`. Do not edit any files except for `src/styles/_custom-theme.scss`. 
1. `gatsby-browser.js`,  `gatsby-config.js`, or `gatsby-node.js`. 
1. `LICENSE.md`.
1. `package-lock.json`, `package.json`.

## Styling

### Customizing the Theme
To update the theme, you only need to edit `src/styles/_custom-theme.scss`. In this file, edit the values assigned to variables that begin with `$custom-`.

If you feel the need to customize the theme even further, you can use the variables in `src/styles/_custom-theme.scss` that are from USWDS that begin with `$theme-`. You can read more about USWDS theme variables [here](https://designsystem.digital.gov/documentation/settings/). 

### Changing Images

#### Hero Background Image
1. The hero background image is set in `src/styles/_custom-theme.scss`, as follows `$custom-hero-image: '../images/hero.png'`. 
1. To update the hero background image either simply add a new `hero.png` in the `src/images` folder or add a new image file and update the file path name assigned to the variable `$custom-hero-image`. 

#### Logos
1. Replace the files in `src/images/logos`. 
1. If you replace the images with files of the same names and extensions then no other changes are needed. Replacing the logo image files with files of the same names and extensions is recommended. 
1. If you replace the images with files of different names or extensions, you will need to edit the exports in `src/images/index.js`. In this case, only change the path name, not the variable name of the exported image. 

#### Graphics Section Images
1. Replace the files in `src/images/graphics`. 
1. If you replace the images with files of the same names and extensions then no other changes are needed. Replacing the graphics image files with files of the same names and extensions is recommended. 
1. If you replace the images with files of different names or extensions, you will need to edit the imports in `src/images/index.js`. In this case, only change the path name, not the variable name. 

## Content

### Editing Content
The content that is unique to a specific page  (ex. `documentation` or `landing`) is stored in markdown files (`src/markdown-pages/documentation` or `src/markdown-pages/landing`). 

1. If the content is in the front matter of the markdown file (if it is in between the three dashes `---`) only edit the text after the colon. The front matter follows YAML syntax. For instance, you can edit the text “Everything up to this point…”, but you should not edit `section:`, `heading`, or `text`. Also, do not edit the indents in the front matter. 
  ```
  section:
  heading: Section heading
  text: Everything up to this point should help people understand your agency or project who you are, your goal or mission, and how you approach it.
  ```
1. If the content is below the three dashes, it uses [markdown syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/). 

## Language Access & Internationalization
The `src/locales` folder contains folders for each language used, which are named according to their [language code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes). Each of the language folders has a `translation.json` file, which contains the text for elements that are included in every page of the webapp, such as the header, footer, navigation bar, and language selector module. 

### Adding a Language
1. To add a new language, create a new folder in `src/locales` . The name of this folder should be the language code.
1. Within the new folder, create a `translation.json` file. 
1. Copy and paste the JSON object from another translation file and replace all of the strings of text with the corresponding translations. Do not change any of the  keys. In the following example, you can translate “Project Title”, but should not edit “title”.
  ```
  {"title": "Project Title"}
  ```
1. In `src/i18n-config.js`, add the new language to resources. See the example below:
  ```
  resources: {
    ar: {
     translations: require('./locales/ar/translation.json'),
   },
    bn: {
     translations: require('./locales/bn/translation.json'),
   },
  //other language resources not shown for brevity 
  ```
1. In `src/markdown-pages`, create a new markdown file for each page in your new language. For instance, if you were adding pages in Spanish, you would need to create a new file in the `landing` folder and in the `documentation` folder. We recommend that each of the new files should be named the same thing as the folder, followed by a dash, and language code: `src/markdown-pages/landing/landing-es.md` and `src/markdown-pages/documentation/documentation-es.md` 


### Removing a Language
1. To delete language, delete the corresponding folder in `src/locales` . 
1. In `src/i18n-config.js`, delete the language from the resources object.
1. In `src/markdown-pages`, delete the corresponding markdown file from each folder. 

